---
xIP: 1
title: xIP Purpose and Guidelines
status: Living
type: Meta
author: Olivier de Jong-Trejo <hello@xdaipunks.com> et al.
created: 2021-09-14
---

## What is an xIP?

xIP stands for xDaiPunks Improvement Proposal. An xIP is a design document providing information to the xDaiPunk community, or describing a new feature for xDaiPunks or its processes or environment. The xIP should provide a concise technical specification of the feature and a rationale for the feature. The xIP author is responsible for building consensus within the community and documenting dissenting opinions.

## xIP Rationale

We intend xIPs to be the primary mechanisms for proposing new features, for collecting community technical input on an issue, and for documenting the design decisions that have gone into xDaiPunks. Because the xIPs are maintained as text files in a versioned repository, their revision history is the historical record of the feature proposal.

For xDaiPunks implementers, xIPs are a convenient way to track the progress of their implementation. Ideally each implementation maintainer would list the xIPs that they have implemented. This will give end users a convenient way to know the current status of a given implementation or library.

## xIP Work Flow

### Shepherding an xIP

Parties involved in the process are you, the champion or *xIP author*.

Before you begin writing a formal xIP, you should vet your idea. Ask the xDaiPunk community first if an idea is original to avoid wasting time on something that will be rejected based on prior research. It is thus recommended to open a discussion thread on Discord to do this, but you can also use the Telegram Channel. 

Once the idea has been vetted, your next responsibility will be to present (by means of an xIP) the idea to the reviewers and all interested parties, invite editors, developers, and the community to give feedback on the aforementioned channels. You should try and gauge whether the interest in your xIP is commensurate with both the work involved in implementing it. Negative community feedback will be taken into consideration and may prevent your xIP from moving past the Draft stage.

### xIP Process 

The following is the standardization process for all xIPs in all tracks:

**Idea** - An idea that is pre-draft. This is not tracked within the xIP Repository.

**Draft** - The first formally tracked stage of an xIP in development. An xIP is merged by an xIP Editor into the xIP repository when properly formatted.

**Review** - An xIP Author marks an xIP as ready for and requesting Peer Review.

**Last Call** - This is the final review window for an xIP before moving to `FINAL`. An xIP editor will assign `Last Call` status and set a review end date (review-period-end), typically 14 days later.

If this period results in necessary normative changes it will revert the xIP to `REVIEW`.

**Final** - This xIP represents the final standard. A Final xIP exists in a state of finality and should only be updated to correct errata and add non-normative clarifications.

**Stagnant** - Any xIP in `DRAFT` or `REVIEW` if inactive for a period of 6 months or greater is moved to `STAGNANT`. An xIP may be resurrected from this state by Authors or xIP Editors through moving it back to `DRAFT`.

>*xIP Authors are notified of any algorithmic change to the status of their xIP*

**Withdrawn** - The xIP Author(s) have withdrawn the proposed xIP. This state has finality and can no longer be resurrected using this xIP number. If the idea is pursued at later date it is considered a new proposal.

**Living** - A special status for xIPs that are designed to be continually updated and not reach a state of finality. This includes most notably xIP-1.

## What belongs in a successful xIP?

Each xIP should have the following parts:

- Abstract - Abstract is a multi-sentence (short paragraph) technical summary. This should be a very terse and human-readable version of the specification section. Someone should be able to read only the abstract to get the gist of what this specification does.
- Motivation (*optional) - A motivation section is critical for xIPs that want to change the Ethereum protocol. It should clearly explain why the existing protocol specification is inadequate to address the problem that the xIP solves. xIP submissions without sufficient motivation may be rejected outright.
- Rationale - The rationale fleshes out the specification by describing what motivated the design and why particular design decisions were made. It should describe alternate designs that were considered and related work, e.g. how the feature is supported in other languages. The rationale may also provide evidence of consensus within the community, and should discuss important objections or concerns raised during discussion.
- Backwards Compatibility - All xIPs that introduce backwards incompatibilities must include a section describing these incompatibilities and their severity. The xIP must explain how the author proposes to deal with these incompatibilities. xIP submissions without a sufficient backwards compatibility treatise may be rejected outright.
- Reference Implementation - An optional section that contains a reference/example implementation that people can use to assist in understanding or implementing this specification.
- Copyright Waiver - All xIPs must be in the public domain. See the bottom of this xIP for an example copyright waiver.

## xIP Formats and Templates

xIPs should be written in [markdown] format. There is a [template](https://github.com/ethereum/xIPs/blob/master/xIP-template.md) to follow.

## xIP Header Preamble

` xIP:` *xIP number* (this is determined by the xIP editor)

` title:` *The xIP title is a few words, not a complete sentence*

` description:` *Description is one full (short) sentence*

` author:` *a list of the author's or authors' name(s) and/or username(s), or name(s) and email(s). Details are below.*

` * discussions-to:` *a url pointing to the official discussion thread*

` status:` *Draft, Review, Last Call, Final, Stagnant, Withdrawn, Living*

` * review-period-end:` *date review period ends*

` type:` *Standards Track, Meta, or Informational*

` created:` *date created on*

` * updated:` *comma separated list of dates*

Headers that permit lists must separate elements with commas.

Headers requiring dates will always do so in the format of ISO 8601 (yyyy-mm-dd).

#### `author` header

The `author` header lists the names, email addresses or usernames of the authors/owners of the xIP. Those who prefer anonymity may use a username only, or a first name and a username. The format of the `author` header value must be:

> Random J. User &lt;address@dom.ain&gt;

or

> Random J. User (@username)

if the email address or GitHub username is included, and

> Random J. User

if the email address is not given.

It is not possible to use both an email and a GitHub username at the same time. If important to include both, one could include their name twice, once with the GitHub username, and once with the email.

At least one author must use a GitHub username, in order to get notified on change requests and have the capability to approve or reject them.

#### `resolution` header

The `resolution` header is required for Standards Track xIPs only. It contains a URL that should point to an email message or other web resource where the pronouncement about the xIP is made.

#### `discussions-to` header

While an xIP is a draft, a `discussions-to` header will indicate the mailing list or URL where the xIP is being discussed. As mentioned above, an example of a place to discuss your xIP is [Ethereum Magicians](https://ethereum-magicians.org/) (this is suitable for xIPs that may be contentious or have a strong governance aspect).

As an exception, `discussions-to` cannot point to GitHub pull requests.

#### `type` header

The `type` header specifies the type of xIP: Standards Track, Meta, or Informational. If the track is Standards please include the subcategory (core, networking, interface, or ERC).

#### `category` header

The `category` header specifies the xIP's category. This is required for standards-track xIPs only.

#### `created` header

The `created` header records the date that the xIP was assigned a number. Both headers should be in yyyy-mm-dd format, e.g. 2001-08-14.

#### `updated` header

The `updated` header records the date(s) when the xIP was updated with "substantial" changes. This header is only valid for xIPs of Draft and Active status.

## Transferring xIP Ownership

It occasionally becomes necessary to transfer ownership of xIPs to a new champion. In general, we'd like to retain the original author as a co-author of the transferred xIP, but that's really up to the original author. A good reason to transfer ownership is because the original author no longer has the time or interest in updating it or following through with the xIP process, or has fallen off the face of the 'net (i.e. is unreachable or isn't responding to email). A bad reason to transfer ownership is because you don't agree with the direction of the xIP. We try to build consensus around an xIP, but if that's not possible, you can always submit a competing xIP.

If you are interested in assuming ownership of an xIP, send a message asking to take over, addressed to both the original author and the xIP editor. If the original author doesn't respond to the email in a timely manner, the xIP editor will make a unilateral decision (it's not like such decisions can't be reversed :)).

## xIP Editors

The current xIP editors are

- Olivier de Jong (@olivierDJ)

## xIP Editor Responsibilities

For each new xIP that comes in, an editor does the following:

- Read the xIP to check if it is ready: sound and complete. The ideas must make technical sense, even if they don't seem likely to get to final status.
- The title should accurately describe the content.
- Check the xIP for language (spelling, grammar, sentence structure, etc.), markup (GitHub flavored Markdown), code style

If the xIP isn't ready, the editor will send it back to the author for revision, with specific instructions.

Once the xIP is ready for the repository, the xIP editor will:

- Assign an xIP number (generally the PR number or, if preferred by the author, the Issue # if there was discussion in the Issues section of this repository about this xIP)

- Merge the corresponding pull request

- Send a message back to the xIP author with the next step.

Many xIPs are written and maintained by developers with write access to the Ethereum codebase. The xIP editors monitor xIP changes, and correct any structure, grammar, spelling, or markup mistakes we see.

The editors don't pass judgment on xIPs. We merely do the administrative & editorial part.

## Style Guide

When referring to an xIP by number, it should be written in the hyphenated form `xIP-X` where `X` is the xIP's assigned number.

## History

This document was derived heavily from [Bitcoin's BIP-0001] written by Amir Taaki which in turn was derived from [Python's PEP-0001]. In many places text was simply copied and modified.

## Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
