---
xIP: 2
title: Marketplace
author: Olivier de Jong-Trejo <hello@xdaipunks.com>
status: Draft
type: Design
created: 2021-09-29
---

# Rationale

The current marketplace of xDaiPunks has been specifically created to mint and trade xDaipunks. That brings a lot of limitations. The current marketplace is very fair to its users as there are now fees or royalties involved. That is no coincidental as we believe that an NFT marketplace should never be a middle man.

To overcome these limitations, a generic marketplace is currently under development. As said the marketplace will have a different model than the royalty model as we think the royalty model is an unststainable model and does not do justice to the ERC-721 standard. Royalties should go to the creators of NFTs and not to the marketplace.

The marketplace will have eventually have different categories of NFTs. Think Art, Music, Game assets etc. Next to that we are currently looking at relativly new sectors which would benefit from NFTs.


# Requirements

- The marketplace should be a generic marketplace and should list all kinds of NFTs
- The marketplace should have a different business model than the royalty model
- The marketplace should live on the xDai blockchain.
- The marketplace should allow for the creation of NFTs
- The marketplace should be powered by the xDaiPunks governance token
- The marketplace should be fair and nifty ;).

# Status

Api, Contracts and Dapp are currently under active development.

# Github repository

Please see https://github.com/xDaiPunks/xIP-000003 for further details.