---
xIP: 2
title: Punk design changes
author: Olivier de Jong-Trejo <hello@xdaipunks.com>
status: Draft
type: Design
created: 2021-09-14
updated: 2021-09-29
---

# Rationale

xDaiPunks has the goal to become a NFT project that is fully owned and managed by a DAO. The process to become a DAO will be a gradual one. To kick-start this process, xDaiPunks will have to be a fully independent project with it's own unique Punks.

This proposal is to adjust and improve the look and feel of our beloved Punks, while keeping their heritage alive.

xDaiPunks is a project that lives on the xDai blockchain. As we have a strong bond with xDai, our Punks will need to reflect this.

The proposal for design changes already received positive response from the community. And the term "Bit-Shifting" was already coined (pun). What is "Bit-Shifting"? Currently our Punks are png files of 24x24 pixels. The idea is to Bit-Shift that to a higher resolutution. By doing so, we can create higher resolution Punks with more detail and more depth. It also allows our Punks to receive a nice tattoo of the xDai logo.

We have the go-ahead of the community to create pixelated 3d xDaiPunks.

The xDaiPunks will become unique. Not only unique in the xDai ecosystem but also unique in the entire NFT ecosystem.

# Requirements

- The xDaiPunks will need to be unique while keeping their heritage alive
- Implementing Bit-Shifting
- The xDaiPunks will stay pixelated
- The xDaiPunks will be 3d models. For marketplaces PNG's and SVG's will be generated from these models.
- 10.000 unique 3d xDaiPunks are being created. They will keep the same attributes and ranking as the 2d homage xDaiPunks.
- The 3d xDaiPunks will be the base of our goverance token and will play an important role within our marketplace and our governance token

# Status

The 3d models of the xDaiPunks are under development.

# Github repository

Please see https://github.com/xDaiPunks/xIP-000002 for further details.
